README.md, before:

# MAVV Demobot 2.9

Discord bot for managing weekly MAVV Game Night voting. Handles nominations, attendance, stack-ranked voting, tie-breaking runoffs, and automated scheduling.

## Features

- **Automated weekly cycle** — Opens voting, sends reminders, publishes results on schedule
- **Interactive button-based voting** — Stack rank games by clicking buttons (works on desktop and mobile)
- **Integrated attendance** — Voting flow prompts attendance first, changeable anytime before results
- **Nominations** — Each member gets 1 nomination per week (configurable), up to 10 games total
- **Carry-over** — Top 5 games from last week auto-populate the next ballot
- **Tie-breaking runoffs** — Single-pick vote among tied games with configurable duration
- **Anonymous voting** — Individual votes are never revealed, only aggregate scores
- **Reminder DMs** — Auto-reminds attending members who haven't voted yet
- **Higher = better scoring** — First choice gets max points, averaged across attending voters

## Quick Start

### 1. Create a Discord Bot

1. Go to [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
2. Click **New Application**, name it "MAVV Demobot"
3. Go to **Bot** → Click **Reset Token** → Copy the token
4. Under **Privileged Gateway Intents**, enable:
   - **Server Members Intent**
   - **Message Content Intent**
5. Go to **OAuth2** → **URL Generator**:
   - Scopes: `bot`, `applications.commands`
   - Bot Permissions: `Send Messages`, `Embed Links`, `Use Slash Commands`, `Read Message History`
6. Copy the generated URL and open it in your browser to invite the bot to your server

### 2. Get Your Discord IDs

Enable Developer Mode in Discord: User Settings → Advanced → Developer Mode

- **Server ID**: Right-click your server name → Copy Server ID
- **Channel ID**: Right-click your voting channel → Copy Channel ID
- **User IDs**: Right-click your username → Copy User ID (for admin list)

### 3. Configure

```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your values
```

### 4. Run with Docker Compose

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

The bot will start, sync slash commands to your server, and begin the automated schedule.

### 5. First-Time Setup

1. Run `/admin start` to open the first voting cycle
2. Run `/admin seed Game1, Game2, Game3, Game4, Game5` to add initial games
3. Members can now click **Vote Now** on the announcement or use `/vote`

After the first week, the bot handles everything automatically.

## Unraid Setup

### Option A: Docker Compose (Recommended)

1. Clone this repo to your Unraid server
2. Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill in your values
3. Run `docker compose up -d`

### Option B: Unraid Template

1. Build the image: `docker build -t mavv-demobot .`
2. In Unraid, go to **Docker** → **Add Container**
3. Use the template from `unraid/mavv-demobot.xml` or manually configure:
   - **Repository**: `mavv-demobot`
   - **Volume**: `/mnt/user/appdata/mavv-demobot/data` → `/app/data`
   - Add all environment variables from `.env.example`

## Commands

### Everyone

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/vote` | Start the interactive voting flow (prompts attendance if needed) |
| `/attend yes/no` | Set or change your attendance |
| `/nominate <game>` | Nominate a game for this week |
| `/myvote` | See your current submitted ranking |
| `/status` | See current cycle status (games, votes, attendance) |
| `/results` | View the latest published results |

### Admin Only

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/admin start` | Manually start a new voting cycle |
| `/admin close` | Manually close voting and publish results |
| `/admin addgame <name>` | Add a game to the current ballot |
| `/admin removegame <name>` | Remove a game from the ballot |
| `/admin mergegame <from> <into>` | Merge duplicate game names |
| `/admin seed <game1, game2, ...>` | Seed initial games (comma-separated) |
| `/admin reminder` | Manually send reminder DMs to non-voters |

## How Voting Works

1. **Cycle opens** (Tuesday 9 AM PT by default) — Bot posts announcement with carry-over games
2. **Members nominate** — Use `/nominate` to add games (1 per person, up to 10 total)
3. **Members vote** — Click **Vote Now** or `/vote`:
   - If attendance not set, prompts "Are you attending?" first
   - Then pick games in preference order (#1 favorite first)
   - First pick = highest score (N points), last pick = 1 point
4. **Reminders** (Thursday 6 PM PT) — Bot DMs attending members who haven't voted
5. **Results** (Friday 9 AM PT) — Bot calculates average scores, posts results
   - If tied: runoff poll with single-pick among tied games (2 hours)
6. **Carry-over** — Top 5 games populate next week's ballot

## Environment Variables

See `.env.example` for the full list with descriptions. Key settings:

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `DISCORD_TOKEN` | (required) | Bot token |
| `DISCORD_GUILD_ID` | (required) | Server ID |
| `VOTE_CHANNEL_ID` | (required) | Voting channel ID |
| `ADMIN_USER_IDS` | (required) | Comma-separated admin user IDs |
| `VOTE_OPEN_DAY` / `VOTE_OPEN_TIME` | tuesday / 09:00 | When voting opens |
| `RESULTS_DAY` / `RESULTS_TIME` | friday / 09:00 | When results publish |
| `REMINDER_DAY` / `REMINDER_TIME` | thursday / 18:00 | When reminders go out |
| `TIMEZONE` | America/Los_Angeles | IANA timezone for all times |
| `RUNOFF_DURATION_MINUTES` | 120 | How long runoffs last |
| `MAX_TOTAL_GAMES` | 10 | Max games on ballot |
| `CARRY_OVER_COUNT` | 5 | Games carried to next week |

## Project Structure

```
├── bot/
│   ├── main.py          # Bot entry point
│   ├── config.py         # Environment variable loading
│   ├── database.py       # SQLite schema and queries
│   ├── cogs/
│   │   ├── voting.py     # /vote, /attend, /nominate, /myvote
│   │   ├── admin.py      # /admin commands
│   │   ├── results.py    # /results, /status, result publishing
│   │   └── scheduler.py  # APScheduler automated cycle
│   └── views/
│       ├── vote_view.py  # Interactive button ranking UI
│       └── runoff_view.py # Runoff single-pick UI
├── data/                  # SQLite database (Docker volume)
├── unraid/
│   └── mavv-demobot.xml  # Unraid container template
├── Dockerfile
├── docker-compose.yml
├── requirements.txt
└── .env.example
```

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add authorized voters list to gate participation
Only members added to the authorized voters list by an admin can
vote, nominate games, or set attendance. This keeps the bot
scoped to the core gaming group even if the Discord server has
more members.

New admin commands:
- /admin adduser @user — add a member to the voters list
- /admin removeuser @user — remove a member
- /admin users — list all authorized voters

Authorization checks added to: /vote, /attend, /nominate,
Vote Now button, Not Attending button, and runoff voting.

https://claude.ai/code/session_01UrobmrBECUpBpzuZjFB6uh

README.md, after:

# MAVV Demobot 2.9

Discord bot for managing weekly MAVV Game Night voting. Handles nominations, attendance, stack-ranked voting, tie-breaking runoffs, and automated scheduling.

## Features

- **Automated weekly cycle** — Opens voting, sends reminders, publishes results on schedule
- **Interactive button-based voting** — Stack rank games by clicking buttons (works on desktop and mobile)
- **Integrated attendance** — Voting flow prompts attendance first, changeable anytime before results
- **Nominations** — Each member gets 1 nomination per week (configurable), up to 10 games total
- **Carry-over** — Top 5 games from last week auto-populate the next ballot
- **Tie-breaking runoffs** — Single-pick vote among tied games with configurable duration
- **Anonymous voting** — Individual votes are never revealed, only aggregate scores
- **Reminder DMs** — Auto-reminds attending members who haven't voted yet
- **Higher = better scoring** — First choice gets max points, averaged across attending voters
- **Authorized voters list** — Only approved members can vote, nominate, or attend (admin-managed)

## Quick Start

### 1. Create a Discord Bot

1. Go to [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
2. Click **New Application**, name it "MAVV Demobot"
3. Go to **Bot** → Click **Reset Token** → Copy the token
4. Under **Privileged Gateway Intents**, enable:
   - **Server Members Intent**
   - **Message Content Intent**
5. Go to **OAuth2** → **URL Generator**:
   - Scopes: `bot`, `applications.commands`
   - Bot Permissions: `Send Messages`, `Embed Links`, `Use Slash Commands`, `Read Message History`
6. Copy the generated URL and open it in your browser to invite the bot to your server

### 2. Get Your Discord IDs

Enable Developer Mode in Discord: User Settings → Advanced → Developer Mode

- **Server ID**: Right-click your server name → Copy Server ID
- **Channel ID**: Right-click your voting channel → Copy Channel ID
- **User IDs**: Right-click your username → Copy User ID (for admin list)

### 3. Configure

```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your values
```

### 4. Run with Docker Compose

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

The bot will start, sync slash commands to your server, and begin the automated schedule.

### 5. First-Time Setup

1. Use `/admin adduser @member` to add each member of your gaming group to the authorized voters list
2. Run `/admin start` to open the first voting cycle
3. Run `/admin seed Game1, Game2, Game3, Game4, Game5` to add initial games
4. Members can now click **Vote Now** on the announcement or use `/vote`

After the first week, the bot handles everything automatically.

## Unraid Setup

### Option A: Docker Compose (Recommended)

1. Clone this repo to your Unraid server
2. Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill in your values
3. Run `docker compose up -d`

### Option B: Unraid Template

1. Build the image: `docker build -t mavv-demobot .`
2. In Unraid, go to **Docker** → **Add Container**
3. Use the template from `unraid/mavv-demobot.xml` or manually configure:
   - **Repository**: `mavv-demobot`
   - **Volume**: `/mnt/user/appdata/mavv-demobot/data` → `/app/data`
   - Add all environment variables from `.env.example`

## Commands

### Everyone

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/vote` | Start the interactive voting flow (prompts attendance if needed) |
| `/attend yes/no` | Set or change your attendance |
| `/nominate <game>` | Nominate a game for this week |
| `/myvote` | See your current submitted ranking |
| `/status` | See current cycle status (games, votes, attendance) |
| `/results` | View the latest published results |

### Admin Only

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/admin start` | Manually start a new voting cycle |
| `/admin close` | Manually close voting and publish results |
| `/admin adduser @user` | Add a member to the authorized voters list |
| `/admin removeuser @user` | Remove a member from the authorized voters list |
| `/admin users` | List all authorized voters |
| `/admin addgame <name>` | Add a game to the current ballot |
| `/admin removegame <name>` | Remove a game from the ballot |
| `/admin mergegame <from> <into>` | Merge duplicate game names |
| `/admin seed <game1, game2, ...>` | Seed initial games (comma-separated) |
| `/admin reminder` | Manually send reminder DMs to non-voters |

## How Voting Works

1. **Cycle opens** (Tuesday 9 AM PT by default) — Bot posts announcement with carry-over games
2. **Members nominate** — Use `/nominate` to add games (1 per person, up to 10 total)
3. **Members vote** — Click **Vote Now** or `/vote`:
   - If attendance not set, prompts "Are you attending?" first
   - Then pick games in preference order (#1 favorite first)
   - First pick = highest score (N points), last pick = 1 point
4. **Reminders** (Thursday 6 PM PT) — Bot DMs attending members who haven't voted
5. **Results** (Friday 9 AM PT) — Bot calculates average scores, posts results
   - If tied: runoff poll with single-pick among tied games (2 hours)
6. **Carry-over** — Top 5 games populate next week's ballot

## Environment Variables

See `.env.example` for the full list with descriptions. Key settings:

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `DISCORD_TOKEN` | (required) | Bot token |
| `DISCORD_GUILD_ID` | (required) | Server ID |
| `VOTE_CHANNEL_ID` | (required) | Voting channel ID |
| `ADMIN_USER_IDS` | (required) | Comma-separated admin user IDs |
| `VOTE_OPEN_DAY` / `VOTE_OPEN_TIME` | tuesday / 09:00 | When voting opens |
| `RESULTS_DAY` / `RESULTS_TIME` | friday / 09:00 | When results publish |
| `REMINDER_DAY` / `REMINDER_TIME` | thursday / 18:00 | When reminders go out |
| `TIMEZONE` | America/Los_Angeles | IANA timezone for all times |
| `RUNOFF_DURATION_MINUTES` | 120 | How long runoffs last |
| `MAX_TOTAL_GAMES` | 10 | Max games on ballot |
| `CARRY_OVER_COUNT` | 5 | Games carried to next week |

## Project Structure

```
├── bot/
│   ├── main.py          # Bot entry point
│   ├── config.py         # Environment variable loading
│   ├── database.py       # SQLite schema and queries
│   ├── cogs/
│   │   ├── voting.py     # /vote, /attend, /nominate, /myvote
│   │   ├── admin.py      # /admin commands
│   │   ├── results.py    # /results, /status, result publishing
│   │   └── scheduler.py  # APScheduler automated cycle
│   └── views/
│       ├── vote_view.py  # Interactive button ranking UI
│       └── runoff_view.py # Runoff single-pick UI
├── data/                  # SQLite database (Docker volume)
├── unraid/
│   └── mavv-demobot.xml  # Unraid container template
├── Dockerfile
├── docker-compose.yml
├── requirements.txt
└── .env.example
```

## License

MIT
